=head1 NAME

ANDNA - Abnormal Netsukuku Domain Name Anarchy

=head1 DESCRIPTION


ANDNA is the distributed, non hierarchical and decentralised system of hostname
management in Netsukuku. It substitutes the DNS.
The ANDNA database is scattered inside all the Netsukuku net and in the worst 
case every node will have to use about some hundreds Kb of memory.

In order to join ANDNA it is necessary to be hooked at Netsukuku with the
ntkd(8) daemon.

For more information about ANDNA visit:
L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org>

=head1 USAGE


First of all be sure to have the ntkd(8) daemon up and running.

=head2 HOSTNAME REGISTRATION

You can register up to 256 hostnames. Each hostname can be a string of maximum
512 bytes, which contains a newline (\n) only at its end.

The hostnames to be registered must be listed, one per line, in the
F<andna_hostnames> file, which is by default in
F</etc/netsukuku/andna_hostnames>.

The ntkd(8) daemon reads it when it is started and when it receives the
SIGHUP signal. So if you've added a hostname while ntkd was running,
just do: 

	killall -HUP ntkd

All the hostnames, which are already registered by other nodes, are
added in the queue, in this way, when the other nodes won't update them, your
hostnames will automatically be the first in the queue.

An hostname expires after 3 days, if it isn't updated. B<ntkd>
automatically updates the registered hostnames, therefore your hostnames will
expire only if you aren't present in the Netsukuku for 3 entire days.

If you want to know the result of a registration read the B<ntkd>
logs.

=head2 HOSTNAME RESOLUTION

The ntkd(8) daemon runs also a DNS wrapper which receives standard DNS
queries for hostnames resolution. The hostnames are resolved in ANDNA, then the
DNS wrapper will reply to the requester.

When the ntkd(8) daemon is started it copies /etc/resolv.conf in
/etc/resolv.conf.bak and adds in the first line of /etc/resolv.conf the
"nameserver 127.0.0.1" string. When it is closed it moves back
/etc/resolv.conf.bak to /etc/resolv.conf. Use the B<-R> option if you want to
disable this behaviour.

All the resolved hostnames are kept, until their expiration date, in the
C<resolved hostnames cache>. The entire cache is flushed each time the
ntkd(8) daemon receives the SIGALRM signal.

That's all.

=head2 IP RESOLUTION

It is possible to know the list of hostnames registered by a node. You have to
simply reverse resolve its ip. For example:

	dig -x 127.0.0.2

This command shows your currently registered hostnames. You can use it to know
what hostnames have been already registered. Note the 127.0.0.2 ip. If you use
127.0.0.1 you get only the local hostname written in /etc/hosts.

=head2 SCATTERED NAME SERVICE DISGREGATION

The Scattered Name Service Disgregation is the ANDNA equivalent of the
SRV Record of the Internet Domain Name System.
For a complete description of the SNSD read the NTK_RFC 0009:
L<http://lab.dyne.org/Ntk_SNSD>

=head3 SNSD NODE REGISTRATION

 * Modify the /etc/netsukuku/snsd_nodes file.
 * Copy the needed public keys
 * Send a SIGHUP to the NetsukukuD of the register node:

=head3 SNSD NODE DELETION

Not implemented

=head3 SNSD HNAME RESOLUTION

The utility ntk-resolv(8) can be used to resolve SNSD hostnames. Examples:
	
	ntk-resolv -s 53/udp host
	ntk-resolv -s http host

=head1 SIGNALS

When the B<SIGHUP> signal is sent to ntkd(8), the F<andna_hostnames> and
F<snsd_nodes> files will be reloaded and it will try to register all the new
added hostnames and snsd records.

When the B<SIGALRM> signal is sent to ntkd(8), the resolved hostnames
cache will be flushed.

=head1 FILES

=over 

=item F</etc/netsukuku/andna_hostnames>

It is the file where the hostnames to be registerd in ANDNA are kept one per
line. It's location can be changed by modifying its option in the
F<netsukuku.conf> file.

=back

=over

=item F</etc/netsukuku/snsd_nodes>

The snsd_nodes file keeps the list of the SNSD records which will be register
in ANDNA.

=back

=over

=item
F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_keyring>

In this keyring your ANDNA public and secret keys are saved. Handle this file
with care: without it, you won't be able to update your hostnames, thus 
you'll definitely lose them.

=item
F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_cache>

=item
F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_cache>

=item
F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_rh_cache>

=item
F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_counter_cache>

They are the saved ANDNA caches.  Their locations can be 
changed in F<netsukuku.conf>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

{ Don't panic! }

If you encounter any bug, please report it.
Use the online bug track system: 
    L<http://bugs.dyne.org/> 

or the mailing list:
    L<http://lists.dyne.org/netsukuku/>

and explain what the problem is and if possible a way to reproduce it.

=head1 CONTACTS

Subscribe to the netsukuku mailing to get help, be updated on the latest news
and discuss on its development.

To subscribe to the list, send a message to:
    L<netsukuku-subscribe@lists.dyne.org>
   
We live night and day in IRC, come to see us in:
#netsukuku 
on the FreeNode irc server (irc.freenode.org).

=head1 AUTHORS

Main authors and maintainers:

Andrea Lo Pumo aka AlpT <alpt@freaknet.org>

Main contributors:

Andrea Leofreddi <andrea.leofreddi@gmail.com>, Katolaz <katolaz@freaknet.org>,
Federico Tomassini <effetom@gmail.com>

For a complete list read the AUTHORS file or visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/?p=Contacts>

=head1 SEE ALSO

For more information about Netsukuku visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org>

ntkd(8), ntk-wifi(8), iproute2(8), route(8)
