=head1 NAME

ntkd - Netsukuku protocol daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ntkd [-hvaldrD46] [-i net_interface] [-c conf_file] [-l logfile]

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Netsukuku is a mesh network or a P2P net system that generates and sustains
itself autonomously. It is designed to handle an unlimited number of nodes with
minimal CPU and memory resources. Thanks to this feature it can be easily
used to build a worldwide distributed, anonymous and anarchical network,
separated from the Internet, without the support of any servers, ISPs or
authority controls.

The complete features list of Netsukuku is here:
L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/files/doc/misc/Ntk_features_list>


In order to join to Netsukuku you have to use B<ntkd>, which is the
daemon implementing the Npv7 protocol.
The daemon at startup takes the list of all the network interfaces which are
currently UP and it uses all of them to send and receive packets. If you want
to force the daemon to use specific interfaces you should use the B<-i>
option.
The ports it listens to are: 269-udp, 269-tcp, 277-udp, 277-tcp. So
be sure to open them in the firewall.


For more information about Netsukuku visit:
L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-4>, B<--ipv4> 

Forces the daemon to use ipv4 addresses only

=item B<-6>, B<--ipv6> 

Forces the daemon to use ipv6 addresses only. Warning, this is still
experimental.

=item B<-i> I<interface>, B<--iface> I<interface> 

Specifies the network interface the daemon will use to join Netsukuku, i.e.
wlan0. You can use more than one interface by specifying multiple times the
B<-i> option. For example: 

	ntkd -i wlan0 -i eth0 -i wifi1 -i eth1

=item B<-a>, B<--no_andna> 

Forces B<ntkd> to don't run the ANDNA daemon when started.

=item B<-R>, B<--no_resolv>

When B<NetsukukuD> starts it modifies F</etc/resolv.conf> writing in the first
line the string "nameserver 127.0.0.1". The old F</etc/resolv.conf> is copied in
F</etc/resolv.conf.bak>. When the daemon is closed F</etc/resolv.conf> is
restored. If you want to disable this set use the B<-R> option.

=item B<-r>I<[bool]>, B<--restricted>=I<[bool]>

With this option the daemon will run in restricted mode as specified in
the Npv7, only IPs of a private class will be chosen. It is used for
Internet compatibility. 
If no argument is given to the option, the default restricted private class
10.0.0.0 is used, otherwise if I<bool> is not zero, the restricted class will
be 172.16.0.0-172.31.255.255.

=item B<-I>, B<--share-inet>

Tells NetsukukuD to run in restricted mode (see B<-r>) and to share your
Internet connection. Please check the relative options in
F</etc/netsukuku/netsukuku.conf>

=item B<-D>, B<--no_daemon> 

This option tells B<ntkd> to don't detach to background and
daemonizing itself. The daemon will run on foreground instead.

=item B<-c> I<configuration_file>, B<--conf> I<configuration_file> 

Specifies the name of the configuration file. The
default is /etc/netsukuku/netsukuku.conf. B<ntkd> will not start
without a configuration file.

=item B<-l> I<logfile>, B<--logfile> I<logfile>

Specifies that B<ntkd> should send all of its messages to the specified file.
The I<logfile> will be overwritten.

=item B<-d>, B<--debug> 

With this option the daemon will run with displaying its debug messages.
The more -d you specify the more debug messages you'll get. Sometimes it's
cool to use it, but be careful and don't go insane ;)

=item B<-h>, B<--help> 

Display a the list of available options and their brief description.

=item B<-v>, B<--version> 

Displays the version of the B<ntkd> daemon.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Usually you'll just want to use B<ntkd> with a wifi device:

	ntk-wifi wlan0
	ntkd -i wlan0

If you one to use more than one network interface:

	ntkd -i eth0 -i wlan0 -i wifi1 -i eth2

=head1 SIGNALS

When the B<SIGHUP> signal is sent to ntkd(8), the F<andna_hostnames> and
F<snsd_nodes> files will be reloaded and it will try to register all the new
added hostnames and snsd records.

When the B<SIGALRM> signal is sent to B<ntkd>, the resolved hostnames
cache is flushed.

=head1 LOGS

If B<ntkd> is started as a daemon (without the B<-D> option), all the
logs are sent to syslog under the LOG_DAEMON category.

If the no-daemon option (B<-D>) is used, all the logs are printed to
F<stderr>.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F</etc/netsukuku/netsukuku.conf>

It is the default path for the B<ntkd> configuration file. It's
possible to choose another file using the B<-c> option.

=item F</etc/netsukuku/andna_hostnames>

It is the file where the hostnames to be registerd in ANDNA are kept one per
line. It's location can be changed by modifying the relative option in the
F<netsukuku.conf> file.

=item F</etc/netsukuku/snsd_nodes>

The snsd_nodes_file keeps the list of the SNSD records which will be register
in ANDNA. 

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/ext_map_file>

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/int_map_file>

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/bnode_map_file>

They are the Netsukuku maps saved by the daemon. Their locations can be
changed in F<netsukuku.conf>.

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_keyring>

In this keyring your ANDNA public and secret keys are saved. Handle this file
with care: without it, you won't be able to update your hostnames, thus 
you'll definitely lose them.

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_cache>

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_lcl_cache>

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_rh_cache>

=item F</usr/share/netsukuku/andna_counter_cache>

They are the saved ANDNA caches. Their locations can be changed in
F<netsukuku.conf>.

=item F</etc/netsukuku/ip_masquerade.sh>

This script is launched by NetsukukuD, at its start, when it shares the Internet
connection. The script will activate the IP masquerading.
The script is also used to disable the IP masquerading when B<ntkd> is closed.

=item F</etc/netsukuku/tc_shaper.sh>

This script manages the traffic shaping for the upload bandwidth.
It is executed by B<ntkd> at its start if its relative option has been
enabled.

=item F</var/run/ntkd.pid>

It is the lock file created by ntkd at its start, it is used to check if other
instances of ntkd are already running.
Only one instance is allowed.

=back

=head1 KERNEL DEPENDENCIES

On Linux be sure to have the following options set in your kernel .config.
These options are taken from linux-2.6.14.
 
 
	#
	# Networking options
	#
	CONFIG_PACKET=y
	CONFIG_UNIX=y
	CONFIG_INET=y
	CONFIG_IP_MULTICAST=y
	CONFIG_IP_ADVANCED_ROUTER=y
	CONFIG_IP_MULTIPLE_TABLES=y
	CONFIG_IP_ROUTE_MULTIPATH=y
	CONFIG_NET_IPIP=y
	CONFIG_NETFILTER=y

and these from linux-2.6.16.19.

	#
	# Core Netfilter Configuration
	#

	CONFIG_NETFILTER_XT_MATCH_CONNTRACK=y
	NETFILTER_XT_TARGET_CONNMARK=y

	#
	# IP: Netfilter Configuration
	#

	CONFIG_IP_NF_IPTABLES=y
	CONFIG_IP_NF_FILTER=y
	CONFIG_IP_NF_TARGET_REJECT=y
	CONFIG_IP_NF_NAT=y
	CONFIG_IP_NF_NAT_NEEDED=y
	CONFIG_IP_NF_TARGET_MASQUERADE=y

If you are using modules you have to load them before launching the daemon.

=head1 BUGS

{ Don't panic! }

If you encounter any bug, please report it.
Use the online bug track system: 
    L<http://bugs.dyne.org/> 

or the mailing list:
    L<http://lists.dyne.org/netsukuku/>

and explain what the problem is and if possible a way to reproduce it.

=head1 CONTACTS

Subscrive to the netsukuku mailing to get help, be updated on the latest news
and discuss on its development.

To subscribe to the list, send a message to:
    L<netsukuku-subscribe@lists.dyne.org>
   
We live night and day in IRC, come to see us in:
#netsukuku 
on the FreeNode irc server (irc.freenode.org).

=head1 AUTHORS

Main authors and maintainers:

Andrea Lo Pumo aka AlpT <alpt@freaknet.org>

Main contributors:

Andrea Leofreddi <andrea.leofreddi@gmail.com>, Katolaz <katolaz@freaknet.org>,
Federico Tomassini <effetom@gmail.com>

For a complete list read the AUTHORS file or visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/?p=Contacts>

=head1 SEE ALSO

For more information about Netsukuku visit:
    L<http://netsukuku.freaknet.org>

netsukuku.conf(5), ntk-wifi(8), andna(8), iproute2(8), route(8)
